>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
SAID TODAY HE WANTS TO REVAMP
RULES ON OVERTIME PAY AND
REQUIRE AMERICAN BUSINESSES TO
PAY MILLIONS OF EMPLOYEES MORE
FOR THEIR EXTRA HOURS OF WORK.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
GWEN IFILL IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD, MILES O'BRIEN
REPORTS ON NUCLEAR POWER'S MURKY
FUTURE IN JAPAN.
MANY THERE ARE STILL WARY OF RE-
STARTING SHUTTERED PLANTS,
THREE YEARS AFTER THE
CATASTROPHIC FUKUSHIMA
MELTDOWNS.
>> RIGHT NOW IN JAPAN, NOT A
SINGLE NUCLEAR POWER PLANT IS
ONLINE, GENERATING ELECTRICITY.
48 NUCLEAR REACTORS, ABLE TO
GENERATE 30% OF JAPAN'S
ELECTRICAL DEMAND-- IDLE.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, THE WORLD HAS
COME TOGETHER AGAIN IN SOCHI FOR
THE PARALYMPICS.
THE U.S IS COMPETING, BUT
NOTICEABLY ABSENT IN SUPPORT OF
AN INTERNATIONAL TREATY TO
ENSURE THE RIGHTS OF THOSE WITH
DISABILITIES.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE WAR OF WORDS ON
UKRAINE ESCALATED TODAY AS DID
RUSSIAN MILITARY MOVES.
IT ALL CAME AS A CRUCIAL VOTE IN
CRIMEA DRAWS CLOSER.
IN THE DEAD OF NIGHT, ABOUT
8,500 RUSSIAN TROOPS BEGAN NEW
MILITARY EXERCISES JUST ACROSS
THE BORDER FROM UKRAINE.
THE RUSSIAN DEFENSE MINISTRY
WOULD NOT SAY HOW LONG THE WAR
GAMES WILL LAST, BUT IT DID SAY
THEY INVOLVE FIRING AT A
POTENTIAL ENEMY UP TO NINE MILES
AWAY.
STILL, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN, IN SOCHI FOR THE
PARALYMPICS, DEFLECTED ANY BLAME
FOR THE TENSE SITUATION.
>> ( translated ): I WOULD LIKE
TO ASSURE YOU THAT RUSSIA DID
NOT INITIATE, IT WAS NOT AN
INSTIGATOR OF THESE DIFFICULT
CIRCUMSTANCES WHICH YOU KNOW
ABOUT AND WE ARE TALKING ABOUT
HERE.
>> Woodruff: PUTIN'S
PROTESTATIONS DID LITTLE TO
MOLLIFY GERMAN CHANCELLOR ANGELA
MERKEL.
ADDRESSING PARLIAMENT, SHE
ISSUED HER STERNEST WARNING YET.
>> ( translated ): IF RUSSIA
CONTINUES ON ITS COURSE OF THE
PAST WEEKS, IT WILL NOT ONLY BE
A CATASTROPHE FOR UKRAINE.
WE WOULD NOT ONLY SEE IT, ALSO
AS NEIGHBORS OF RUSSIA, AS A
THREAT.
AND IT WOULD NOT ONLY CHANGE THE
EUROPEAN UNION'S RELATIONSHIP
WITH RUSSIA.
NO, THIS WOULD ALSO CAUSE
MASSIVE DAMAGE TO RUSSIA,
ECONOMICALLY AND POLITICALLY.
>> Woodruff: IN WASHINGTON,
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
SAID THE DAMAGE COULD BE
TRIGGERED SUNDAY IF CRIMEA VOTES
TO LEAVE UKRAINE AND JOIN
RUSSIA.
>> THE HOPE, MR. CHAIRMAN, IS
THAT REASON WILL PREVAIL, BUT
THERE'S NO GUARANTEE OF THAT
WHATSOEVER.
THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY IS
STRONGLY UNITED.
THEY WILL MEET ON MONDAY.
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES HAS MADE IT CLEAR HE'S
PREPARED TO MOVE.
>> Woodruff: AND, AT THE U.N.
SECURITY COUNCIL, UKRAINE'S
INTERIM PRIME MINISTER
MADE A DIRECT PLEA TO THE
RUSSIAN AMBASSADOR.
>> ( translated ): WE ARE
LOOKING FOR AN ANSWER TO THE
QUESTION, DO THE RUSSIANS WANT
WAR?
AND I'M SURE AS THE PRIME
MINISTER OF UKRAINE, WHICH FOR
DECADES HAD WARM AND FRIENDLY
RELATIONS WITH RUSSIA I AM
CONVINCED RUSSIANS DO NOT WANT
WAR.
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE, ACROSS
CRIMEA, ANTI-FASCIST AND PRO-
RUSSIA BILLBOARDS LINED THE
HIGHWAYS.
AND INSIDE POLLING STATIONS,
WORKERS PUT THE FINISHING
TOUCHES ON VOTING BOOTHS FOR
SUNDAY'S REFERENDUM.
AT THE SAME TIME, PRO-RUSSIAN
SELF-DEFENSE UNITS BEEFED UP
CHECKPOINTS IN CRIMEA.
AND MORE RECRUITS TO THE PRO-
RUSSIAN CRIMEAN ARMY WERE SWORN
IN TO THEIR POSITIONS IN
SIM'FEROPOL.
THE TOUGH TALK ON UKRAINE
RATTLED WALL STREET.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL DROPPED
231 POINTS TO CLOSE BELOW
16,109.
THE NASDAQ FELL ALMOST 63 POINTS
TO CLOSE AT 4,260.
THE STANDARD AND POOR'S 500
DROPPED NEARLY 22 POINTS, TO
1,846.
A BIPARTISAN GROUP OF U.S.
SENATORS SAY THEY'VE REACHED AN
ELUSIVE COMPROMISE TO EXTEND
GOVERNMENT BENEFITS FOR THE
LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYED FOR ANOTHER
FIVE MONTHS.
LEADERS ON BOTH SIDES SAID TODAY
THE DEAL WOULD BE RETROACTIVE TO
THE END OF LAST YEAR.
ROUGHLY TWO MILLION PEOPLE HAVE
RUN OUT OF JOBLESS BENEFITS
SINCE THEN.
THE DEATH TOLL ROSE TO AT LEAST
SEVEN TODAY IN NEW YORK CITY
AFTER AN EXPLOSION THAT LEVELED
TWO APARTMENT BUILDINGS IN NEW
YORK.
YESTERDAY MORNING'S BLAST WAS
TRIGGERED BY A NATURAL GAS LEAK.
MORE THAN 60 PEOPLE WERE
INJURED, WITH FIVE MORE STILL
MISSING.
MAYOR BILL DE BLASIO VISITED THE
STILL-SMOLDERING WRECKAGE TODAY.
HE PRAISED FIRE AND RESCUE CREWS
WHO ENDURED A WET, FREEZING
NIGHT TO KEEP SEARCHING.
>> EVERYONE INVOLVED IN THE
RESCUE EFFORT HAS GIVEN THEIR
ALL.
I WAS UP TODAY MEETING WITH SOME
OF THE FIRST RESPONDERS.
THEY'VE BEEN FIGHTING THROUGH
THE COLD.
THE WIND, EXCEEDINGLY DIFFICULT
THEY'VE BEEN FIGHTING THROUGH
CIRCUMSTANCES AND THEY HAVE
THE WIND, EXCEEDINGLY DIFFICULT
STUCK WITH IT.
CIRCUMSTANCES AND THEY HAVE
>> Woodruff: RESIDENTS REPORTED
STUCK WITH IT.
SMELLING GAS AT THE SITE THE
>> Woodruff: RESIDENTS REPORTED
NIGHT BEFORE THE EXPLOSION, BUT
SMELLING GAS AT THE SITE THE
FIRE AND UTILITY OFFICIALS SAY
NIGHT BEFORE THE EXPLOSION, BUT
THEY RECEIVED NO COMPLAINTS OF
FIRE AND UTILITY OFFICIALS SAY
GAS LEAKS IN RECENT WEEKS.
THEY RECEIVED NO COMPLAINTS OF
THE SAME WINTER STORM THAT SWEPT
GAS LEAKS IN RECENT WEEKS.
THROUGH NEW YORK STATE PUMMELED
THE SAME WINTER STORM THAT SWEPT
NORTHERN NEW ENGLAND TODAY WITH
THROUGH NEW YORK STATE PUMMELED
MORE THAN TWO FEET OF SNOW.
NORTHERN NEW ENGLAND TODAY WITH
BUT THE STORM'S WORST EFFECTS
MORE THAN TWO FEET OF SNOW.
WERE IN THE MIDWEST, WHERE A 50-
BUT THE STORM'S WORST EFFECTS
VEHICLE PILE-UP KILLED THREE
WERE IN THE MIDWEST, WHERE A 50-
PEOPLE YESTERDAY ON A TURNPIKE
VEHICLE PILE-UP KILLED THREE
NEAR SANDUSKY, OHIO.
PEOPLE YESTERDAY ON A TURNPIKE
OFFICIALS SAID IT WILL TAKE DAYS
NEAR SANDUSKY, OHIO.
TO CLEAN UP THE WRECKAGE.
OFFICIALS SAID IT WILL TAKE DAYS
THE INTERNATIONAL SEARCH FOR A
TO CLEAN UP THE WRECKAGE.
MALAYSIAN JETLINER HAS EXPANDED
THE INTERNATIONAL SEARCH FOR A
AGAIN-- TOWARD INDIA.
MALAYSIAN JETLINER HAS EXPANDED
A U.S. NAVY DESTROYER "THE KIDD"
AGAIN-- TOWARD INDIA.
MOVED TODAY TO JOIN THE EFFORT.
A U.S. NAVY DESTROYER "THE KIDD"
THE WORD CAME AS U.S.
MOVED TODAY TO JOIN THE EFFORT.
INVESTIGATORS TOLD "THE WALL
THE WORD CAME AS U.S.
STREET JOURNAL" THE PLANE MAY
INVESTIGATORS TOLD "THE WALL
HAVE FLOWN FOR HOURS AFTER ITS
STREET JOURNAL" THE PLANE MAY
LAST KNOWN CONTACT BASED ON
HAVE FLOWN FOR HOURS AFTER ITS
ENGINE READINGS.
LAST KNOWN CONTACT BASED ON
MALAYSIAN OFFICIALS, MEANWHILE,
ENGINE READINGS.
DISMISSED CHINESE REPORTS OF
MALAYSIAN OFFICIALS, MEANWHILE,
POSSIBLE DEBRIS SIGHTINGS.
DISMISSED CHINESE REPORTS OF
WE GET MORE ON THAT ANGLE, FROM
POSSIBLE DEBRIS SIGHTINGS.
RAGEH OMAAR OF INDEPENDENT
WE GET MORE ON THAT ANGLE, FROM
TELEVISION NEWS.
RAGEH OMAAR OF INDEPENDENT
IMAGES RELEASED BY THE
TELEVISION NEWS.
CHINESE AUTHORITIES WERE SET
IMAGES RELEASED BY THE
TO SHOW DEBREAUX FROM THE
CHINESE AUTHORITIES WERE SET
MALAYSIAN AIRLINES PLANE.
TO SHOW DEBREAUX FROM THE
SOME MEASURING 60 FEET IN
MALAYSIAN AIRLINES PLANE.
SIZE.
SOME MEASURING 60 FEET IN
HOPES WERE RAISED ONLY TO BE
SIZE.
CRUSHED HOURS LATER.
HOPES WERE RAISED ONLY TO BE
ANOTHER DAY, ANOTHER FALSE
CRUSHED HOURS LATER.
LEAD IN THIS EXTRAORDINARY
ANOTHER DAY, ANOTHER FALSE
AND MYSTERIOUS SEARCH FOR
LEAD IN THIS EXTRAORDINARY
FLIGHT 370.
AND MYSTERIOUS SEARCH FOR
>> WE HAVE CONTACTED THE
FLIGHT 370.
CHINESE EMBASSY WHO NOTIFIED
>> WE HAVE CONTACTED THE
US THIS AFTERNOON THAT THE
CHINESE EMBASSY WHO NOTIFIED
IMAGES WERE RELEASED BY
US THIS AFTERNOON THAT THE
MISTAKE.
IMAGES WERE RELEASED BY
AND DID NOT SHOW ANY DEBRIS
MISTAKE.
FROM FLIGHT 370.
AND DID NOT SHOW ANY DEBRIS
>> NOT A SLED OF CREDIBL
FROM FLIGHT 370.
CREDIBLE-- SHRED OF CREDIBLE
>> NOT A SLED OF CREDIBL
INFORMATION.
CREDIBLE-- SHRED OF CREDIBLE
LITTLE WONDER SPECULATION IS
INFORMATION.
RIFE RANGING FROM HIGH
LITTLE WONDER SPECULATION IS
BACKING TO THE ACCIDENTAL
RIFE RANGING FROM HIGH
SHOOTING DOWN OF THE PLANE.
BACKING TO THE ACCIDENTAL
THE MALAYSIAN AUTHORITIES
SHOOTING DOWN OF THE PLANE.
FIND THEMSELVES CAUGHT IN
THE MALAYSIAN AUTHORITIES
THE MIDDLE.
FIND THEMSELVES CAUGHT IN
DEFENDING THEMSELVES AGAINST
THE MIDDLE.
THE MOUNTING QUESTIONS AND
DEFENDING THEMSELVES AGAINST
FRUSTRATIONS.
THE MOUNTING QUESTIONS AND
>> THERE IS NO REAL
FRUSTRATIONS.
PRECEDENT FOR A SITUATION
>> THERE IS NO REAL
LIKE THIS.
PRECEDENT FOR A SITUATION
THE PLANE VANISHED.
LIKE THIS.
WE HAVE EXTENDED THE SEARCH
THE PLANE VANISHED.
AREA BECAUSE IT IS OUR DUTY
WE HAVE EXTENDED THE SEARCH
TO FOLLOW EVERY LEAD.
AREA BECAUSE IT IS OUR DUTY
AND WE OWE IT TO THE
TO FOLLOW EVERY LEAD.
FAMILIES AND TRUST ME WHEN I
AND WE OWE IT TO THE
SAY, WE WILL NOT GIVE UP.
FAMILIES AND TRUST ME WHEN I
>> Reporter: ALL THE WHILE
SAY, WE WILL NOT GIVE UP.
THE SIZE OF THE SEARCH
>> Reporter: ALL THE WHILE
OPERATION GROWS NOW COVERING
THE SIZE OF THE SEARCH
THOUSANDS OF SQUARE MILES IN
OPERATION GROWS NOW COVERING
THE SOUTH CHINA SEA, THE
THOUSANDS OF SQUARE MILES IN
STRAIT OF MALACCA AND THE
THE SOUTH CHINA SEA, THE
ANDEMAN SEA, IT ALSO
STRAIT OF MALACCA AND THE
INVOLVES OVER 80 PLANES AND
ANDEMAN SEA, IT ALSO
SHIPS FROM OVER NINE
INVOLVES OVER 80 PLANES AND
COUNTRIES, FROM THE UNITED
SHIPS FROM OVER NINE
STATES TO PBRUNAI ALL UNABLE
COUNTRIES, FROM THE UNITED
TO FIND ANY CLUES
STATES TO PBRUNAI ALL UNABLE
>> Woodruff: BACK IN WASHINGTON,
TO FIND ANY CLUES
THE CHIEF U.S. LAW ENFORCEMENT
>> Woodruff: BACK IN WASHINGTON,
OFFICER HAS ENDORSED A PROPOSAL
THE CHIEF U.S. LAW ENFORCEMENT
TO CUT FEDERAL PRISON SENTENCES
OFFICER HAS ENDORSED A PROPOSAL
FOR MANY NON-VIOLENT DRUG
TO CUT FEDERAL PRISON SENTENCES
TRAFFICKERS.
FOR MANY NON-VIOLENT DRUG
ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC HOLDER
TRAFFICKERS.
SAID TODAY THE CURRENT POLICY IS
ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC HOLDER
NOT JUSTIFIABLE FINANCIALLY OR
SAID TODAY THE CURRENT POLICY IS
MORALLY.
NOT JUSTIFIABLE FINANCIALLY OR
>> I UNDERSTAND THAT PEOPLE FEEL
MORALLY.
A SORT OF TENSION IN THIS NOTION
>> I UNDERSTAND THAT PEOPLE FEEL
THAT WE'RE GOING TO SPEND LESS,
A SORT OF TENSION IN THIS NOTION
WE'RE GOING TO PUT PEOPLE IN
THAT WE'RE GOING TO SPEND LESS,
JAIL FOR SMALLER AMOUNTS OF
WE'RE GOING TO PUT PEOPLE IN
TIME, AND YET YOU'RE GOING TO
JAIL FOR SMALLER AMOUNTS OF
TELL ME THAT WE'RE GOING TO BE
TIME, AND YET YOU'RE GOING TO
MORE SAFE.
TELL ME THAT WE'RE GOING TO BE
AND YET, THE EMPIRICAL STUDIES
MORE SAFE.
THAT I HAVE SEEN, AND WHICH I
AND YET, THE EMPIRICAL STUDIES
HAVE FAITH IN, INDICATE THAT IF
THAT I HAVE SEEN, AND WHICH I
DONE APPROPRIATELY THOSE ARE IN
HAVE FAITH IN, INDICATE THAT IF
FACT THE RESULTS THAT YOU CAN
DONE APPROPRIATELY THOSE ARE IN
GET.
FACT THE RESULTS THAT YOU CAN
>> Woodruff: HOLDER SPOKE TO THE
GET.
U.S. SENTENCING COMMISSION,
>> Woodruff: HOLDER SPOKE TO THE
WHICH IS CONSIDERING THE
U.S. SENTENCING COMMISSION,
PROPOSAL.
WHICH IS CONSIDERING THE
POPE FRANCIS TODAY MARKED THE
PROPOSAL.
FIRST ANNIVERSARY OF HIS PAPACY.
POPE FRANCIS TODAY MARKED THE
THERE WERE NO FORMAL
FIRST ANNIVERSARY OF HIS PAPACY.
CELEBRATIONS, IN KEEPING WITH
THERE WERE NO FORMAL
THE PONTIFF'S SIMPLER STYLE.
CELEBRATIONS, IN KEEPING WITH
INSTEAD, HE TOOK PART IN A
THE PONTIFF'S SIMPLER STYLE.
SPIRITUAL RETREAT NEAR ROME,
INSTEAD, HE TOOK PART IN A
WHERE HE SENT OUT A MESSAGE TO
SPIRITUAL RETREAT NEAR ROME,
12 MILLION FOLLOWERS ON TWITTER.
WHERE HE SENT OUT A MESSAGE TO
IT SAID, SIMPLY: "PRAY FOR ME".
12 MILLION FOLLOWERS ON TWITTER.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR,
IT SAID, SIMPLY: "PRAY FOR ME".
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S EXPANSION OF
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR,
OVERTIME PAY, NUCLEAR POWER'S
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S EXPANSION OF
MURKY FUTURE IN JAPAN, THE PUSH
OVERTIME PAY, NUCLEAR POWER'S
TO SECURE THE RIGHTS OF THE
MURKY FUTURE IN JAPAN, THE PUSH
DISABLED AROUND THE WORLD, PLUS,
TO SECURE THE RIGHTS OF THE
HOW SOCIAL MEDIA MIXES WITH
DISABLED AROUND THE WORLD, PLUS,
POLITICAL TURMOIL IN AN
HOW SOCIAL MEDIA MIXES WITH
EMBATTLED UKRAINE.
>> Woodruff: IT'S BEEN NEARLY A
DECADE SINCE THE BUSH
ADMINISTRATION CHANGED THE
THRESHOLD FOR WHEN OVERTIME PAY
KICKS IN.
PRESIDENT OBAMA ANNOUNCED HIS
OWN PLAN TODAY TO REVISE THOSE
REGULATIONS.
IT COULD MEAN HIGHER PAY FOR
MILLIONS OF WORKERS, BUT SOME
BUSINESSES ARE WORRIED ABOUT THE
COSTS.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR THE
PRESIDENT, IT'S A NEW ATTEMPT TO
ADDRESS PAY EQUITY WITHOUT GOING
THROUGH CONGRESS, WHERE HIS
ECONOMIC AGENDA IS LARGELY
STALLED.
HE'S DIRECTING THE LABOR
DEPARTMENT TO UPDATE OVERTIME
PAY RULES FOR AN ESTIMATED FIVE
MILLION WORKERS.
>> TODAY, I'M GOING TO USE MY
PEN TO GIVE MORE AMERICANS THE
CHANCE TO EARN THE OVERTIME PAY
THAT THEY DESERVE.
NOW OVERTIME'S A PRETTY SIMPLE
IDEA.
IF YOU HAVE TO WORK MORE, YOU
SHOULD GET PAID MORE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE FOCUS IS ON
SALARIED WORKERS, INCLUDING
SHIFT LEADERS AND MANAGERS AT
FAST FOOD RESTAURANTS AND STORES
WHO ARE DESIGNATED AS
SUPERVISORY AND MAKE AT LEAST
$455 A WEEK.
THE PRESIDENT WANTS TO RAISE
THAT SALARY THRESHOLD AND CHANGE
THE DEFINITION OF SUPERVISOR.
>> IT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE THAT IN
SOME CASES, THIS RULE ACTUALLY
MAKES IT POSSIBLE FOR SALARIED
WORKERS TO BE PAID LESS THAN THE
MINIMUM WAGE.
IT'S NOT RIGHT WHEN BUSINESS
OWNERS WHO TREAT THEIR EMPLOYEES
FAIRLY CAN BE UNDERCUT BY
COMPETITORS WHO AREN'T TREATING
THEIR EMPLOYEES RIGHT.
IF YOU'RE WORKING HARD, YOU'RE
BARELY MAKING ENDS MEET, YOU
SHOULD BE PAID OVERTIME.
PERIOD.
>> Sreenivasan: THE U.S. CHAMBER
OF COMMERCE HAS REJECTED THE
PLAN.
IT ISSUED A STATEMENT THAT SAID,
IN PART:
REPUBLICANS ALSO PROTESTED THE
OBAMA PLAN WILL COST JOBS.
HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER.
>> IF YOU DON'T HAVE A JOB, YOU
DON'T QUALIFY FOR OVERTIME.
SO WHAT DO YOU GET OUT OF IT?
YOU GET NOTHING.
THE PRESIDENT'S POLICIES ARE
MAKING IT DIFFICULT FOR
EMPLOYERS TO EXPAND EMPLOYMENT.
AND UNTIL THE PRESIDENT'S
POLICIES GET OUT OF THE WAY,
EMPLOYERS ARE GOING TO CONTINUE
TO SIT ON THEIR HANDS.
>> Sreenivasan: THE PRESIDENT IS
LEAVING IT TO THE LABOR
DEPARTMENT TO WORK OUT THE
DETAILS, AND ANY PROPOSED RULE
WILL BE SUBJECT TO PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THAT MEANS A NEW OVERTIME
STANDARD MIGHT TAKE EFFECT SOME
TIME IN 2015.
WE GET VIEWS FROM TWO CAMPS
DEEPLY IMMERSED IN THE DEBATE.
JARED BERNSTEIN IS A FORMER
CHIEF ECONOMIST TO VICE
PRESIDENT BIDEN.
HE'S WRITTEN ON THIS AND IS A
SENIOR FELLOW AT THE CENTER ON
BUDGET AND POLICY PRIORITIES.
AND DAN BOSCH IS THE MANAGER OF
REGULATORY AFFAIRS AT THE
NATIONAL FEDERATION OF
INDEPENDENT BUSINESS, A TRADE
GROUP OPPOSED TO THE MOVE.
DAN, LET ME START WITH YOU.
WHY IS REFORMING OVERTIME
GOING COST JOBS, HOW DOES IT
HURT SMALL BUSINESSES IN.
>> WELL, FOR SMALL
BUSINESSES THIS IS JUST THE
LATEST IN A LONG LINE OF
GOVERNMENT MANDATES THAT
HAVE BEEN COMING OUT OF
WASHINGTON LATELY.
THIS IS ON TOP OF A PROPOSED
MINIMUM-WAGE INCREASE,
RISING HEALTH-CARE COST AND
A TIDAL WAVE OF GOVERNMENT
REGULATION.
THESE BURDENS ARE
DISPROPORTIONATELY TROUBLING
FOR SMALL BUSINESSES.
>> WHAT ABOUT THIS IDEA THAT
THIS IS JUST PART OF A
LARGER ONSLAUGHT THAT SMALL
BUSINESSES ARE FEELING?
>>.
>> I DON'T THINK SO AND IN
FACT N THIS CASE IT'S
UNIQUELY DIFFERENT FROM SOME
OF THE OTHER POLICIES THAT
DAN MENTIONED.
FOR EXAMPLE, IF AN EMPLOYER
DOESN'T WANT TO PAY OVERTIME
TO A WORKER, THEY CAN
HIRE A WORKER AT A STRAIGHT
TIME WAGE AND THAT DOES TWO
THINGS.
IT ACTUALLY SAVES THE
EMPLOYER OVERTIME COSTS AND
CRICH IS SOMETHING THAT WE
COULD USE ABOUT NOW.
AND THAT WAS ACTUALLY ONE OF
THE MOTIVATIONS FOR THE
OVERTIME RULES ORIGINALLY IN
THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT
THAT IS TO YOU ABOUT 75
YEARS OLD.
>> IS THAT A PONT, THAT
ACTUALLY STRAIGHT TIME
WORKERS OR NONOVERTIME
EMPLOYEE KOS ACTUALLY PUT A
DENT INTO THIS UNEMPLOYMENT
RANGE, OR THIS PROBLEM THAT
EVERYONE IS TRYING TO
TACKLE?
>> I THINK SMALL BUSINESSES
WHICH ARE WHO I REPRESENT
USUALLY AROUND 5 TO 10
EMPLOYEES PER BUSINESS,
THEY'RE TO THE GOING TO HAVE
THE CAPITOL TO BE ABLE TO
BRING ON A NEW EMPLOYEE.
WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN IS
THE BUSINESS OWNER WILL TAKE
ON THE ADDED RESPONSIBILITY
OF THE WORKER WHO SHOULD
POTENTIALLY BE GETTING
OVERTIME NOW.
AND THEY WILL CAP THE
OVERTIME WORKER AT 40 HOURS.
>> IS THERE A WAY THIS COULD
BACKFIRE.
>> I DON'T REALLY UNDERSTAND
THE LOGIC THAT DAN IS
ESPOUSING THERE.
BECAUSE THE CAPITAL IS
ACTUALLY-- THE CAPITAL, THE
LABOR COST HAS ACTUALLY
DIMINISHED.
WE HAVE TO PAY TIME AND A
HALF FOR YOUR OVERTIME
WORKER, NEWLY COVERED BY
THIS IDEA.
AND REMEMBER, LET'S NOT LOSE
THE FACT THAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT ADJUSTING THE
THRESHOLD FOR INFLATION THAT
HASN'T BEEN ADJUSTED FOR TEN
YEARS.
THAT THRESHOLD BELOW WHICH
YOU AUTOMATICALLY GET
OVERTIME RIGHT NOW IS ABOUT
EQUAL TO THE POVERTY LEVEL.
SO I THINK PRESIDENT OBAMA
HAS A CASE WHEN HE TALKS
ABOUT MAKING THIS MORE FAIR
FOR PEOPLE WHO ARE WORKING
LONG HOURS.
AND AGAIN, EMPLOYER CAN
AVOID HIGHER LABOR COST,
THAT'S NOT THE SAME AS THE
MINIMUM WAGE.
>> WHAT ABOUT THIS IDEA THAT
THE THRESHOLD HASN'T BEEN
ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION EVEN
IN THE LAST NINE YEARS, THAT
IT'S BEEN FLAT.
>> UH-HUH.
WELL, SMALL BUSINESSES TODAY,
THEY'RE NOT ROLLING AROUND
IN CASH.
OUR SMALL BUSINESS OPTIMISM
INDEX THAT WE RELEASE
MONTHLY SHOWS SMALL
BUSINESSES SEE THE ECONOMY
AT A RECESSIONARY LEVEL OR
SUBPAR GROWTH LEVEL SOME
THIS THEY ARE NOT IN A
POSITION TO BE INCREASING
THEIR LABOR COSTS.
>> LET ME SAY SOMETHING
ABOUT THAT.
THE REASON YOU WORK SOMEON
SOMEONE-- FOR OVERTIME, THE
REASON YOU HAVE SOMEBODY
WORK OVERTIME IS BECAUSE THE
DEMAND FOR THE GOODS AND
SERVICES THAT YOU ARE
PROVIDING IS VERY STRONG.
AND YOU CAN'T MEET THAT
BASED ON SIMPLY STRAIGHT
STORY THAT DAN IS
TELLING IS TRUE AND I
CERTAINLY BELIEVE HIM, THEN
YOU'RE NOT SEEING THE KINDS
OF PRESSURES IN TERMS OF
DEMAND FOR WHAT IT IS THESE
SMALL BUSINESS FOLKS ARE
PROVIDING THAT THEY WOULD
NEED TO USE OVERTIME.
AND IF THEY DON'T NEED TO
USE OVERTIME THIS DOESN'T
AFFECT THEM.
IF THEY DO NEED TO USE
OVERTIME WORKERS AND THEY
DON'T WANT TO, THEY CAN HIRE
SOMEONE STRAIGHT TIME AND
SAVE THEMSELVES SOME SAL
RETHERE.
>> IS THAT TRUE.
>> I THINK THE ONLY POINT I
WOULD MAKE THERE IS I DONE
KNOW THAT THE SMALLEST
BUSINESSES ARE GOING TO
BRING ON ADDITIONAL PEOPLE.
I THINK THE SMALL-BUSINESS
OWNER WILL TRY TO TAKE OVER
THAT ADDITIONAL WORK THAT
NEEDS TO BE DONE HIS OR
HERSELF.
>> HERE'S THE THING.
ANY TIME YOU GET INTO THIS
DISCUSSION ABOUT WHAT A PAN
DATE WOULD DO YOU HAVE TO
LOOK AT THE EMPIRICAL
EVIDENCE AND WHAT IT SHOWED
TIME AND AGAIN WHETHER
MINIMUM WAGES OR EVEN
OVERTIME RULES BECAUSE WE
HAVE RAISED THIS THRESHOLD
IN THE PAST, BUSINESSES
SMALL AND LARGE, THEY HIRE
WHEN THEY NEED TO AND THEY
DON'T HIRE WHEN THEY DON'T
NEED TO.
AND WHEN WE HAVE INCREASED
THIS OVERTIME THRESHOLD IN
THE PAST, WE HAVE SEEN
ANYTHING LIKE THE KINDS OF
EMPLOYMENT OR JOB LOSS
EFFECTS THAT DAN IS
SUGGESTING WE WOULD.
>> AND WHAT ABOUT THIS IDEA
THAT THERE ARE SUPERVISORS
IN NAME ONLY, THAT PERHAPS
SOME SMALL EMPLOYERS ARE
CHEATING THE SYSTEM BY
SAYING HEY, YOU KNOW WHAT,
YOU ARE A SUPERVISOR, ARE
YOU NOT ELIGIBLE FOR
OVERTIME EVEN THOUGH THEY
MIGHT NOT BE MAKING THIS
THAT MUCH MONEY.
>> I CAN'T SPEAK TO WHETHER
OR NOT COMPANIES ARE
ACTUALLY DOING THAT.
I'M SURE IT HAPPENS
SOMEWHERE.
I DON'T KNOW HOW PREVALENT
IT IS.
BUT I WOULD SAY THAT
SOMETHING THAT WE'VE SEEN AS
A POSSIBLE ELEMENT MIGHT
COME OUT OF THIS PROPOSAL IS
SMALL BUSINESSES WOULD HAVE
TO CALCULATE A PERCENTAGE OF
WHAT TASK YOU PERFORM AS AN
EMPLOYEE OR SUPERVISOR AND
WHAT YOU AREN'T.
THAT IF IT AM COULDS TO
FRUITION IS GOING TO BE
EXTREMELY BURDENSON IN SMALL
BUSINESSES, IT IS AN
IMPORTANT CALCULATION TO
MAKE FOR EVERY EMPLOYEE
EVERY WEEK EVERY YEAR.
>> THAT HAS ALWAYS BEEN PART
OF THE LAW.
PART OF THIS, THIS PART OF
THIS WHITE COLLAR PART OF
THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT
HAS ALWAYS ASKED EMPLOYERS
HOW MUCH OF YOUR TIME DOES
YOUR EMPLOYEE SPEND
SUPERADVICEARY POSITION.
AND SO THERE IS NOTHING NEW
ABOUT THAT.
WHAT IS DIFFERENT HERE IS
THAT THE WAY THE LAW WAS
CHANGED IN 2004 TO THE
DETRIMENT OF OVERTIME
WORKERS IS THAT IF 95% OF
YOUR TIME IS SPENT DOING THE
TYPE OF WORK THAT WOULD BE
COVERED BY OVERTIME PAY AND
THEN FOR AN HOUR A WEEK YOU
SUPERVISE SOMEONE ELSE, YOU
CAN BE EXEMPTED FROM
OVERTIME PAY JUST BASED ON
THAT ONE CHUNK OF YOUR WOKE.
AND THAT'S WRONG.
WHAT YOU COULD END UP TH,WI
THE CURRENT SITUATION, WHAT
WE HAD IS TOO MANY OF THESE
WORKERS DON'T LOOK LIKE
EXECUTIVE MANAGERS,
PROFESSIONAL SUPERVISORS AT
ALL.
BUT ARE TREATED THAT WAY
UNDER THIS LAWMENT AND
THEREFORE DON'T GET THE
OVERTIME PAY THEY SHOULD.
>> ONE OF THE CONCERNS IS
GOING FORWARD, THAT THIS
CREATES A CLIMATE OF
UNCERTAINTY FOR SMALL
BUSINESSES.
EXPLAIN.
>> WELL, THIS PROCESS IS NOT
GOING TO JUST, YOU KNOW,
HAPPEN THIS WEEK OR EVEN,
YOU KNOW, IN A COUPLE OF
WEEKS OR MONTHS, WHAT HAVE
YOU.
THIS IS GOING TO BE AN
EXTREMELY LENGTHY PROCESS.
I HAPPEN TO THINK PERSONALLY
THAT I THINK YOU SAID IN
YOUR PIECE THAT 2015 MIGHT
BE THE TIME FRAME FOR THIS I
THINK IT IS EXTREMELY
ADVANCEDMENT I DONE KNOW
THAT THIS CAN HAPPEN THAT
CLOSELY IF THE DEPARTMENT OF
LABOR GOES THROUGH THE
PROPER POSSESSES.
>> ACCOUNT ADMINISTRATION
GET THIS DONE BY THE TIME IT
IS OUT OF OFFICE.
>> THIS COULD BE DONE IN A
MATTER OF MONTHS THERE IS A
COMMENT PERIOD WHERE THE
ADMINISTRATION JUSTIFYICALLY
ASK STAKEHOLDER WHS THEY
THINK AND THENHE
ADMINISTRATION WILL STEP IN
AN CHANGE THE RULESING MUCH
AS WE'VE BEEN DISCUSSING SO
FAR.
SO I CAN SEE THIS HAPPENING
IN A MATTER OF MONTHS.
IN FACT, IF YOU GO BACK TO
THE 2004 CHANGE, I THINK
THEY TOOK ABOUT SIX MONTHS,
AS I RECALL.
>> JARED BERNSTEIN FROM THE
CENTER OF BUDGET AND
POLICIES.
DAN BOSCH, THANKS SO MUCH
FOR JOINING ME.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: IT'S BEEN THREE
YEARS SINCE A TSUNAMI DESTROYED
THE FUKUSHIMA NUCLEAR REACTOR IN
JAPAN, AND FORCED THE GOVERNMENT
TO SHUT DOWN THE PLANTS THAT
REMAINED.
TODAY REGULATORS ANNOUNCED THEY
WOULD SPEED UP SAFETY CHECKS ON
A PAIR OF IDLE REACTORS IN
SOUTHWEST JAPAN-- A KEY STEP IN
THE PRIME MINISTER'S PUSH TO
RESTART THEM AND OTHERS.
NEWSHOUR SCIENCE CORRESPONDENT
MILES O'BRIEN LOOKS AT THE
DEBATE RAGING IN THE COUNTRY
ABOUT THAT IDEA.
>> Reporter: JAPAN, A METICULOUS
AND MASSIVE CLEANUP IS UNDERWAY
NEAR THE FUKUSHIMA DAIICHI
NUCLEAR POWER PLANT.
THEY ARE SCRAPING OFF TWO INCHES
OF SOIL CONTAMINATED WITH CESIUM
AND OTHER RADIONUCLIDES EXPELLED
FROM THE PLANT AFTER A SERIES OF
EXPLOSIONS TRIGGERED BY THE
EARTHQUAKE AND TSUNAMI OF MARCH
11, 2011.
THE CONTAMINATED SOIL IS BAGGED,
PLACED ON A WATERTIGHT PAD AND
THEN COVERED WITH A TARP.
IT WILL BE STORED LIKE THIS
UNTIL A PERMANENT SITE CAN BE
FOUND.
THE RADIOACTIVE CESIUM WILL
REMAIN IN THE SOIL FOR 300
YEARS.A AND KEIKO HAKOZAKI'S
HOME IN NARAHA, THE CLEANUP
APPARENTLY WORKED.
WE TOOK SOME GEIGER COUNTER
READINGS IN THEIR YARD READ-
CESIUM LEVELS WERE .204
MICROSIEVERTS PER HOUR- JUST
UNDER THE GOVERNMENT LIMIT OF
.23.
STILL, THE HAKOZAKIS ARE UNSURE
ABOUT RETURNING TO THEIR HOME.
BUT THEIR FEELINGS ABOUT NUCLEAR
POWER ARE NOW ETCHED IN STONE.
>> ( translated ): WE
EXPERIENCED THIS ACCIDENT
FIRSTHAND, WHICH IS ALL THE MORE
REASON WE THINK THAT NUCLEAR
POWER PLANTS ARE NOT SUITABLE
FOR THIS COUNTRY, HE SAID.
>> Reporter: RIGHT NOW IN JAPAN,
NOT A SINGLE NUCLEAR POWER PLANT
IS ON LINE GENERATING
ELECTRICITY.
48 NUCLEAR REACTORS ABLE TO
GENERATE 30% OF JAPAN'S
ELECTRICAL DEMAND- IDLE WHILE
THIS COUNTRY DECIDES IF THE
HAKOZAKIS ARE RIGHT OR IF
TURNING THE NUKES BACK ON IS
PRUDENT, PERHAPS EVEN MANDATORY
TO MAINTAIN JAPAN'S HIGHLY
ELECTRIFIED LIFESTYLE.
JAPAN IS MAKING UP FOR THE IDLE
NUCLEAR FACILITIES BY RUNNING
THEIR FOSSIL FUEL PLANTS AT FULL
TILT, IMPORTING $266 BILLION
WORTH OF OIL, GAS AND COAL LAST
YEAR.
IN THE COUNTRY WHERE THE KYOTO
PROTOCOLS WERE DRAFTED, CO2
EMISSIONS ARE UP 13%.
PRIME MINISTER SHINZO ABE IS
PUSHING AN ENERGY POLICY THAT
WOULD TURN THE NUCLEAR PLANTS
BACK ON AS SOON AS THEY MEET
MORE STRINGENT SAFETY STANDARDS
ADOPTED AFTER THE FUKUSHIMA
MELTDOWNS.
WHILE HE HAS THE VOTES IN
PARLIAMENT TO MAKE THAT HAPPEN,
HE DOES NOT HAVE MUCH SUPPORT ON
THE STREET.
IN FACT POLLS SHOW AS MUCH AS
80% OF  VOTERS HERE NOW OPPOSE
NUCLEAR POWER.
AND LARGE NOISY PROTESTS LIKE
THIS OUTSIDE ABE'S OFFICE ARE A
REGULAR OCCURRENCE.
>> ( translated ): WE CONTINUE
THIS PROTEST UNTIL THEY GIVE UP
ALL THE NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS.
>> Reporter: BUT IN JAPAN,
WALKING AWAY FROM NUCLEAR POWER
IS A TRICKY PROPOSITION.
OVER THE YEARS, THE COUNTRY HAS
NOT INVESTED MUCH IN RENEWABLE
ALTERNATIVES.
SOLAR AND ND PWIOWER GENERATION
CONTRIBUTE BARELY 1% TO THE
GRID.
BUT THE MAN WHO WAS PRIME
MINISTER WHEN THE MELTDOWNS
HAPPENED IS TRYING TO CHANGE
THAT.
UP UNTIL MARCH OF 2011, NAOTO
KAN WAS A PROPONENT OF NUCLEAR
POWER.
>> ( translated ): I CHANGED MY
ATTITUDE WITHIN A WEEK AFTER THE
ACCIDENT, WHEN THE WORST-CASE
SCENARIO BECAME CLEAR.
I CONCLUDED THAT WE'VE GOT TO
QUIT USING THESE NUCLEAR PLANTS.
>> Reporter: KAN'S
ADMINISTRATION INCREASED
SUBSIDIES TO ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO
INSTALL SOLAR PANELS ON THEIR
HOMES.
AND JAPANESE CORPORATIONS ARE
ALSO EMBRACING RENEWABLE ENERGY.
THE KYOCERA CORPORATION HAS
BUILT A GIANT SOLAR FARM IN
SOUTHERN JAPAN CAPABLE OF
GENERATING 70 MEGAWATTS.
THE COMPANY HAS ALSO DEVELOPED A
SMART RENEWABLE HOME CONCEPT
THAT ALLOWS PEOPLE TO GENERATE
AND STORE SOLAR POWER.
IN TOKYO, THE GIANT CONSTRUCTION
FIRM SHIMIZU RECENTLY OPENED A
NEW HEADQUARTERS BUILDING THAT
IS WRAPPED IN SOLAR PANELS AND
BRIMMING WITH ENERGY
CONSERVATION TECHNOLOGY.
AND KAN HIMSELF-- NOW A MEMBER
OF PARLIAMENT-- IS PRACTICING
WHAT HE PREACHES.
HE SHOWED ME A SATELLITE IMAGE
OF HIS HOME OUTSIDE TOKYO.
THE ROOF IS COVERED WITH SOLAR
PANELS RATED TO GENERATE 5.7
KILOWATTS OF ELECTRICITY.
>> ( translated ): WITHIN TEN TO
20 YEARS, ALL OF THE ELECTRICITY
THAT WAS BEING PRODUCED BY THE
NUCLEAR PLANTS WILL BE SUPPLIED
BY RENEWABLES.
>> Reporter: FOR THAT TO HAPPEN,
JAPAN WILL NEED A LOT OF PEOPLE
TO START THINKING LIKE DENTIST
HIDEKI SHINZAWA.
HIS HOME IN KASHIWAZAKI IS
OUTFITTED WITH SOLAR PANELS AND
A WIND TURBINE.
>> ( translated ): IF INSTALLING
SOLAR PANELS WERE TO BECOME
MANDATORY, I FEEL THAT MOST
HOMES COULD BE SELF SUFFICIENT,
HE TOLD ME.
>> Reporter: SHINZAWA LIVES ONLY
FIVE MILES FROM THE LARGEST
NUCLEAR POWER PLANT IN THE WORLD
- TEPCO'S KASHIWAZAKI-KARIWA
FACILITY ON THE WEST COAST OF
JAPAN.
THE COMPANY SAYS IT IS READY TO
BEGIN GENERATING ELECTRICITY
HERE AGAIN AFTER INVESTING $2.6
IO
A SENIOR PLANT MANAGER, TAKESHI
OHTA, GAVE ME A TOUR.
WE BEGAN AT THE NEW 50-FOOT HIGH
TSUNAMI WALL.
>> WE HAVE 891 PILES UNDER THIS
BASEMENT.
SO THIS WALL CAN WITHSTAND THE
MASSIVE POWER OF EARTHQUAKES,
AND ALSO FOLLOWING TSUNAMI.
>> Reporter: IN ADDITION TO THE
GIANT WALL, THEY HAVE BUILT A
FIVE MILLION GALLON RESERVOIR
HIGH ABOVE THE REACTORS THAT CAN
SUPPLY COOLING WATER FOR SEVEN
DAYS USING ONLY THE FORCE OF
GRAVITY.
AND 100 FEET ABOVE SEA LEVEL ON
A HILL OVERLOOKING THE PLANT
THEY HAVE STAGED A SERIES OF GAS
TURBINE BACK UP GENERATORS AND A
FLEET OF FIRE ENGINES.
>> ( translated ): SO, THESE
FIRE ENGINES ARE ESSENTIAL FOR
US TO KEEP COOLING THE REACTOR.
>> Reporter: WHAT HAPPENS TO
THIS PLANT MAY VERY WELL BE KEY
TO JAPAN'S ENERGY FUTURE.
TEPCO IS SEEKING PERMISSION TO
RESTART TWO REACTORS HERE IN
JULY.
IF THAT HAPPENS, IT WILL MAKE IT
EASIER FOR OTHER NUCLEAR POWER
PLANTS TO COME BACK ONLINE.
BUT THE GOVERNOR OF THE
PREFECTURE THAT IS HOME TO
KASHIWAZAKI-KARIWA IS FIGHTING
TEPCO'S PROPOSED PLAN.
DESPITE A SERIES OF
INVESTIGATIONS AND REPORTS ON
FUKUSHIMA OVER THE PAST THREE
YEARS, HIROHIKO IZUMIDA IS
INSISTING THERE ARE STILL
UNANSWERED QUESTIONS.
>> ( translated ): THE CAUSE OF
THE ACCIDENT AT FUKUSHIMA IS YET
TO BE IDENTIFIED, YET THEY ARE
DECLARING THAT THE KASHIWAZAKI-
KARIWA PLANT IS SAFE.
I FIND THIS EXCEEDINGLY
ARROGANT, HE SAID.
>> Reporter: AND WHILE MANY OF
HIS CONSTITUENTS DEPEND ON THE
TEPCO PLANT FOR THEIR
LIVELIHOOD, THEY TOO ARE WARY OF
NUCLEAR POWER.
>> ( translated ): IF THESE
ALTERNATIVES ARE IMPROVED ENOUGH
THROUGH SOME SORT OF SCIENTIFIC
ADVANCES, THAT WOULD BE BEST,
SAYS YOSHINORI TAKAHASHI, A BUS
DRIVER AT THE PLANT
THEN THE USE OF NUCLEAR POWER
WILL NATURALLY TAPER OFF, I WISH
FOR IT TO BE ELIMINATED THAT
WAY.
>> Reporter: THAT IS T GOAHEL AT
HERE ON THE PACIFIC COAST, 50
MILES EAST OF TOKYO.
THESE WIND TURBINES ARE THE
FIRST PHASE OF A PROJECT TO
BUILD 50 MORE OFFSHORE.
MAMORU KOMATSUZAKI IS PRESIDENT
OF THE WIND POWER COMPANY.
HE SAYS JAPAN IS TEN YEARS
BEHIND NATIONS THAT HAVE
EMBRACED RENEWABLES, LEAVING THE
UNTRCOY WITH FEW VIABLE
ALTERNATIVES TO NUCLEAR POWER.
>> ( translated ): IT IS
IMPOSSIBLE TO FILL THE GAP RIGHT
AWAY BECAUSE IT TAKES TIME TO
BUILD RENEWABLE ENERGY SITES.
I THINK WE CAN CATCH UP IN ABOUT
SIX YEARS.
>> Reporter: WHEN THE JAPANESE
MAKE A COMMITMENT TO CATCH UP,
THEY HAVE AN EXTRAORDINARY WAY
OF DELIVERING ON THAT PROMISE.
BUT IT SEEMS INEVITABLE THEY
WILL HAVE TO RELY ON NUCLEAR
POWER IN THE MEANTIME.
THE REACTORS MAY BE SAFER, BUT
WILL THEY BE SAFE ENOUGH?
>> Woodruff: THE 2014 PARALYMPIC
GAMES BEING PLAYED IN SOCHI THIS
WEEK HAVE ONCE AGAIN FOCUSED
ATHLETES FROM AROUND THE WORLD
WHO HAVE OVERCOME A VARIETY OF
DISABILITIES TO COMPETE THERE.
THEY INSPIRED US TO LOOK INTO
THE STATUS OF A GLOBAL TREATY
THAT WOULD DIRECTLY AFFECT THEM
AND OTHERS WITH DISABILITIES.
I RECORDED THIS REPORT A FEW
DAYS AGO.
>> Woodruff: IT'S A LANDMARK
OF SORTS AT THE PARALYMPIC
GAMES, A WALL COMMEMORATING
THE UNITED NATIONS
CONVENTION ON THE RIGHTS OF
PERSONS WITH DISABILITY.
IN FANFARE LAST WEEK IT WAS
REVEALED TO THE WORLD.
THE CONVENTION AIMS TO MAKE
SURE THAT THOSE WITH
DISABILITIES HAVE EQUALITY
UP THE LAW.
ACCESS TO PUBLIC PLACES AND
FACILITIES, AND BASIC
EDUCATION.
THOUSANDS OF SIGNED THE WALL
IN SOCHI INCLUDING AMERICAN
ATHLETES.
HOWEVER, THE COUNTRY THAT
SENT THEM THERE IS ONE OF
THE FEW DOZEN COUNTRIES IN
THE WORLD THAT HAVE NOT
RATIFIED THE CONVENTION THE
WALL CELEBRATES.
DESPITE THE FACT THE TREATY
IS BASED ON THE AMERICANS
WITH DISABILITIES ACT,
PASSED BY CONGRESS IN 1990,
THIS CONGRESS HASN'T
RATIFIED THE TREATY.
>> ORDINARILY IT PREVENTS
DISCRIMINATION AGAINST
DISABILITIED PEOPLE WHO
MIGHT BE TRAVELING ABROAD.
IT WOULD ALSO GIVES US A
SEAT AT THE TABLE.
>> WE'RE GOING TO BE HELD
RESPONSIBLE AND ACCOUNTABLE.
>> BOB DOLE IS THE FORMER
SENATE MAJORITY LEADER AND
REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL
NOMINEE WHO LOST THE USE OF
HIS RIGHT ARM AFTER HE WAS
WOUNDED IN WORLD WAR II.
>> WE DECIDED TO MAKE OUR
CASE.
AND WE'RE DOING IT ALMOST
EVERY DAY, WE'RE WORKING ON
SOME WAY TO CONVINCE MEMBERS
THAT THIS WAS THE RIGHT
THING TO DO.
>> Woodruff: O
ON-- OPPONENTS OF THE TREATY
SAY THAT IT GIVES THE UNITED
NATIONS JURISDICTION OVER
LOCAL AND STATE LAWS.
>> ISABELLA IS OUR YOUNGEST
CHILD.
SHE IS A SPECIAL GIFT TO US.
>> Woodruff: FORMER U.S.
SENATOR RICK SANTORUM IS ONE
OF THOSE OPPONENTS.
HE'S ALSO THE FATHER OF A
YOUNG DAUGHTER WITH A
DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY.
>> WE ALREADY HAVE LAWS THAT
PROTECT EVERYTHING THAT IS
IN THIS CONVENTION.
WE ALREADY MEET OR EXCEED
WHAT THIS CONVENTION CALLS
FOR.
THERE'S NO BENEFIT TO THE
UNITED STATES FROM PASSING
IT.
THERE IS NO BENEFIT TO ANY
CHILDREN HERE HE IT.
>> IT IS SO DECIDED.
>> Woodruff: ITS CONVENTION
WAS ADOPTED BYHE T U.N. IN
2006.
PRESIDENT OBAMA SIGNED THE
TREATY IN 2009.
>> IT WENT TO A VOTE ON THE
SENATE FLOOR IN DECEMBER
2012.
BUT FELL SIX VOTES SHORT.
LAST FALL OPPONENTS MANNED
TO SCUTTLE ANOTHER ATTEMPT
TO GET THE TREATY BEFORE THE
SENATE.
SO FAR, A VOTE ON THE ISSUE
HAS NOT BEEN SCHEDULED FOR
2014.
>> Woodruff: JOINING TO US
TALK ABOUT THE
PROSPECTS-- PROSPECTS FOR A
VOTE ON THE CONVENTION
AND-TO-POINTS OF VIEW ON
WHAT IT MEANS IS
REPRESENTATIVE FROM RHODE
ISLAND AND MICHAEL FARRIS,
CHANCELLOR OF PATRICK HENRY
COLLEGE IN VIRGINIA, AND THE
CHAIRMAN OF THE HOME SCHOOL
LEGAL DEFENSE ASSOCIATION.
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH TO THE
PROGRAM.
CONGRESSMAN, LET ME START
WITH YOU, WHAT WOULD THIS